Mr. Deen.
Good morning, Jen.
Hey, how’s that little sister?
Great, two weeks old now.
Oh my gosh.
I was wondering, could you help
me out with my college essays?
I’d be happy to.
Where are you,
where are you applying?
UPEN, Pensylvania...
Hey, jerk off.
Leave her alone, alright?
-Relax, waste away.
-Nathan--
Okay, I’m sorry, I’m sorry.
Shit, man, get off me.
What are you doing?
What, I can’t
defend my girlfriend?
We were just talking.
-Oh yeah?...about what?
-Yeah.
I don’t know.
-Life, school,... the play.
-What else?
Don’t be weird.
Mr. Deen. Hi.
Hi, Tina.
Yo, Nate, Nate,
we’re on for tonight, dude.
Come on.
Dude, hurry!
Keys!?
Yeah, I got’em, get in.
What’s that?
200, 300?
At least!
VCR’s are hot.
Yeah!
Yo, guess what? Party time.
♪ We are the sons of no one, ♪
♪ bastards of young. ♪
-Nate...
-Nathan...
-Yo Nate.
-Nathan, Nathan...
Nathan,
Nathan, where’s Nathan?
Nathan!
I think he’s--
here.
Yo, come on.
Where’d you
stay last night?
My uncle’s.
Crashing there for now.
But it’s so far away.
Nah!
Got my wheels.
When am I gonna get
to meet them?
Are they coming
to the track meet?
Get a room, you two.
Hi.
Good luck.
-Sir.
-Okay, go get them.
You know you got this, right?
Good luck.
On your mark.
Get set.
Nate!
That was nice running, man.
Thanks, man.
Hey, did you sell
any of that stuff yet?
Uh no, but Noah said we
can get like 400 for the lot.
Ok cool.
Hey, do you want
to do something tonight?
I can come to your place.
Shit, man, I can’t.
My stepmom’s making me do this
like boring
family dinner, you know?
Yeah, I know I should do
a family dinner too.
Do that test paper.
Ah!
Test paper!
You’re gonna be a
college boy now, Nate?
All right, later.
I look at you,
I see a doctor.
But I never acted before,
Mr. Deen.
And that’s why this is
the perfect role to start with.
Couldn’t I at least be like
a--is there a
football player part?
There are no football players
in Flowers
for Algernon, Barnaby.
But there are doctors.
And I know you can do it.
Morning, Nate.
How are you today?
Morning, Mr. Deen.
You’ll need this.
And on behalf of the
Spartan Social Committee,
you’ve been nominated the
winner of this
delicious candy bar.
That’s it.
Of course.
Go ahead.
Enjoy.
Morning, Noah. Hand those
out for me, will you?
Morning, Carl.
Morning, Mr Deen.
Morning, Jen.
How’s it going Mr. Deen
Morning, Johnny.
Tina.
Morning, Mr. Deen.
Morning.
Oh, not those, Mr. Deen.
Hey, Linda.
Any news?
I’ve been accepted.
I start next semester.
See, I told you.
Thanks. Oh, hey.
I kept these
especially for you.
Fresh?
Freshest.
And what are
you doing with those?
Hi, Deb.
You are a very bad boy, Stan.
How’d it go in tennis?
We lost. Straight sets.
Really? Doubles?
Of course.
Roger was taking lessons, but
he’s got tennis elbow again.
When are you going to join?
We need more players.
Oh, next semester, for sure.
You said that all last season.
Hey, where’s that racket
I bought you?
Stan?
Are you okay?
Really?
You know how it is, Deb.
You leave the house
at 6:30 in the morning.
You don’t get home
until 10:30 at night.
Where is that racket?
I bet it’s down this hallway.
In the basement.
I think it’s in the basement.
It’s not there.
It’s in the base--
You gotta be kidding me.
Seriously?
I’m sorry.
Stan, I promised
you’d drop this off months ago.
This isn’t good for you.
It’s been a while now.
I know. You’re right.
This too shall pass.
The Telecomic Woman
Maker Tuesday posted its
first quarterly
operating loss in 16 years.
Company CEO
Christopher Galvin says
that the earliest signs
of a turnaround
will come with a
gradual increase in sales
and profitability in
the second half of the year.
It’s official.
Liberty Media and ATandamp;T
will split this summer. Thank--
It’s cute, right?
Yeah.
Little mittens.
Mm-hmm.
What’s yours?
I don’t know.
It’s cool though, right?
Hey!
Is Nathan Williams present?
Yes, he’s right here.
Nathan Williams,
you’re under arrest.
Turn around.
Hands behind your back.
You have the
right to remain silent.
Anything you say,
can, and will be
used against you
in a court of law.
You were right to an attorney--
What is happening?
I’m not a bad guy.
I know.
-...rights that I’ve read you.
-Yes.
In hearing these rights,
Do you wish to talk to --
Where are you taking him?
It’s okay.
Turn to your right.
Strip.
All the way.
You’re in trouble,
Nathan.
Who was with you?
No one.
You did this alone?
A witness said
they saw someone,
maybe two other peo--.
I was on my own.
You get to make
one phone call.
Let’s go.
I don--I don’t have
anyone to call.
Oh, sorry.
Morning, Barnaby.
Nadine, Paul, Chris, Madison.
Morning.
I know, John,
but what did he do?
Hey, does
anyone know if Nathan--
It was burglary.
Someone’s home?
It was West Barnes’
appliance store in New Holland.
Did they have to arrest him
in front of the whole school?
Couldn’t you have
called him into your office?
It sends a message.
The whole school
got that message, John.
Well, how
else do you expect to
get through
to a kid like that?
A kid like what?
What kind of kid do
you think he is, Miriam?
He’s disrespectful and lazy.
His grades certainly
aren’t up to par.
And he’s the only
kid at Garden Spot like that?
He’s a heck of an
athlete, right, Coach?
Well, um...
What are we doing here?
Aren’t we supposed to inspire
these kids to
become something great?
good morning--
-you know?
all rise for
the Pledge of Allegiance
I pledge allegiance,
to the flag
of the United States of America
John, do you know if Nathan’s
posted bail or not?
I don’t know.
I’m trying to get in
touch with the foster parents.
: with liberty
and justice for all.
Good morning, ma’am.
I’m here to
see Nathan Williams.
Are you family?
No. No, I’m his teacher.
Can’t let you back
unless you’re family.
Well, at Garden Spot,
we like to think
of all of our
students as family.
Well, we don’t.
You have to be family.
It’s really important, please.
I’d like to see
the warden, please.
The warden’s busy.
You just tell him,
Stan Deen’s here.
I’ll... I’ll wait.
Mr. Deen.
Tom Friedman?
Oh, my gosh,
I can’t believe it.
What’s it been, 20 years?
Yeah, at least.
Well, what are you doing?
Are you at the
Garden Spot still?
Yeah, yep, I’m still there.
I’m still there.
I’m not leaving till
they name something after me.
So, what are you
doing in here today?
You gonna yell at me, Mr. Deen?
No, of course not.
You don’t belong here, Nate.
We’re gonna get you out.
All right?
Do you have
any family I can call?
No one?
No.
Who were you living with
before you went
into foster care?
-My nanny and grandpa.
-Okay.
That-- it’s been a
very long time, Mr. Deen.
I don’t think they’d want
to help, if they’re still alive.
Well, we’re gonna
give it a try. All right?
Nate, I need a name.
Cole.
C-O-L-E?
Yeah, they’re up
in Lebanon. They were.
All right.
We’ll find a
way to get you out.
Sorry for wasting
your time, Mr. Deen.
It’s not a waste--
♪ This little light of mine ♪
♪ I’m gonna let it shine ♪
♪ Let it shine ♪
♪ Let it shine, let it shine ♪
♪ Let it shine, let
it shine, let it shine ♪
You’re in the same room.
Okay.
♪ This kind of music
is like heaven to me! ♪
♪ Hoop-dee-doo, hoop-dee-doo ♪
♪ It’s got me higher
than a kite ♪
♪ Hand me down
my soup an’ fish ♪
♪ I am gonna get my wish, -- ♪
Whoops.
♪ ...dee doin’ it tonight! ♪
♪ When there’s
a trombone playin’... ♪
Hello.
...prison.
It’s some guy from the high
school
he called and let us know.
Hold on Bonnie--
Good morning ma’am.
I’m Stan Deen,
Nathan’s teacher.
Is he here?
Nathan’s teacher.--
I don’t know.
Hey, what are you doing here?
Hey Nate, hi.
Gee, I hoped I’d see you
back in class by now.
He’s got a job.
He don’t need no school.
Dropping out of school, huh?
Uh oh. I’ll be out of
a job if that gets around.
Nate, you
gotta get back in school.
What’s gonna happen
when you go on trial?
Whaddya mean?
When he goes to
court, he has to show
the judge he’s not
that person anymore.
And the best way to do that
is to go back to
school and graduate.
New Holland’s too far.
His car’s impounded
till the trial.
What she means is,
they put up my bail.
I gotta work
for them to pay it back.
Bonnie, I’ll call you back.
We can’t put up bail
every time he gets in trouble.
Well, plenty of
kids get a part-time job.
Nate, where was the foster home
you were staying at before?
Nathan?
I wasn’t in a foster home.
I was living in my car.
Your car?
What do you mean your car?
You lived in your car? Where?
I don’t know. Quiet places.
Fields, mostly.
How’d you eat?
I didn’t. Not really.
That Hershey bar
you gave me was the
only meal I had
in like three days.
Oh my gosh.
Why do you think
I was on the track team?
So I could shower, Mr. Deen.
Nate, we have got
to get you back in school.
Why? Show’em I’m a con?
What are you doin’ in here?
Oh, Gosh.
This is Nathan’s teacher.
He wants to get
Nathan back in school.
Yeah, that’s right.
Who is this?
Nathan’s mother. Gloria.
She’s beautiful.
She died when I was six.
Terrible accident. Car accident.
Died instant like.
Nanny...
Don’t start that again.
You can’t keep making
up stories about what happened.
Right when he was little,
he made up stories.
Upsetting people.
After she died, we couldn’t...
a little child
needs a lot of keepin’.
We thought the orphanage
would give him a good home.
My Lord.
I’m sorry, but
what about the father?
We don’t speak
about that piece of trash.
As I tell Nathaniel,
he better forget that man
ever drew a living breath.
Otherwise,
people will think
the apple don’t
fall far from the tree.
She shouldn’t have took
up with him in the first place.
She brought it on herself.
C’mon, Nathaniel.
Nate. Nate.
Here’s my number.
If you change your mind,
I promise you...
We’ll figure this out.
Thanks.
I know.
It’s just a little upsetting
when the first person
isn’t somebody
faceless in the newspaper.
But someone you know...
someone you care about.
If Charlie is chosen
and we succeed,
he will have more
than a new life.
He will have a life.
And if we fail,
he will have made a greater
contribution to mankind
than most normal people
could ever hope to do.
You think he has
a future as an actor.
I don’t think Barnaby
has any future as an actor.
I mean...
But...
I can see him
disappearing into his shell,
you know, this
thing with his knee, and...
There’s a terrific kid there.
And if I can help...
even at Flowers
for Algernon’s expense...
then... I mean, what the heck?
No one walks out
of a Stan Deen production.
Except me.
Hey, hi, Mr. Deen.
It’s Nate. Nate Williams.
Uh...
I’ve been thinking about
what you said.
I’d like to come back to school.
Before we do this,
I need something from you.
I need to know you trust me.
I trust you.
Let’s tell
each other something
about ourselves
neither of us knows.
Okay? I’ll go first.
Uh...
I wanted to be a movie star.
What?
Yep. I was gonna
be the next James Deen.
I already had the last name.
You don’t know
who that is, do you?
mm-mmm
I quit my teaching job
and I moved out to California.
Why’d you come back?
Didn’t work out.
Okay, your turn.
I don’t like reading out loud.
I already know that.
I also know you’re good at it.
Okay, what’s something
no one knows?
I like photography.
-Let’s go with that.
-Yeah, can we go now?
Does Mrs. Baker
know you like photography?
Okay, got it. Not cool.
Wow.
Pretty great, huh?
It’s a mid-century ranch.
No. No.
It’s more of a dump
than my car, Mr. Deen.
Okay. You’re
sleeping on the couch.
You can just push that stuff--
The couch is
quite comfortable.
but I’ll make some
house calls tomorrow
and see if I can
find something better for you,
your highness.
Is this your mom?
Huh? Yeah, my dad took that.
He was a photographer, too.
Professional.
Where is your mom?
She, uh...
She passed.
Last... last January.
Sorry
It’s all right. It’s all right.
You know,
she had a big stroke,
I guess,
about eight years ago, and...
I looked after her.
Can I use your bathroom?
Yeah, yeah. Sure, of course.
It’s just through there.
♪ It’s time to
start a show tonight ♪
Hey! There you are.
I was gonna
send out a search party.
We are having pasta for dinner.
Now, the secret to good pasta.
I don’t like pasta.
That’s because you
haven’t had mine.
Now, the way
they do it in Italia
is you add the
spaghetti to the sauce,
and not the
sauce to the spaghetti.
Mama mia no signori, ah.
You know how to cook?
Yeah.
My mom was not a fan of
Chinese takeout or pizza, so...
Is this your dad?
Yeah.
He used to make
me carry all his gear.
I hated it.
He thought it was hysterical.
That was in
the Blue Mountains.
He was a photographer.
Yeah. He was
the main photographer
for the
Hamilton Watch Company.
What about your dad?
Yeah, which one?
I had a lot of ’em.
Right. No, I meant your real--
What’s this?
That was a play I was in.
My mom kept all that stuff
I sent home from Hollywood.
What kind of
work did your dad do?
Were you in any movies?
I was in one.
The sum total of my role
was getting punched in the face.
I’d like to see that.
Ecco! Time to put
the spaghetti in the sauce.
Morning.
-Morning, Jen.
-Morning.
Travis. Travis.
Thank you.
Morning, Renee.
We are here to sign this
young man back into school.
So, you have a
convicted felon living with you.
Until I can find him
somewhere more permanent.
And actually, Miriam,
he’s out on bail.
Oh, sorry.
Soon-to-be-convicted.
Is there a problem?
Yes, there is, Stan.
You have brought him back here.
What exactly do you
know about this kid?
I know he likes photography.
Had you spotted that, Miriam?
No, bet you hadn’t.
You should be very careful
taking in a kid like that.
If things start going missing,
don’t complain or come to us.
Guys, I know exactly
why he was arrested, all right?
I also know that he was living
out of his car for two years.
Going hungry, only running track
so he could get a shower.
Well, let the system
take care of him, Stan.
You know, I didn’t understand
how no one saw this happening.
But, you’ve all
just made that real clear.
So, thank you.
Today’s quote
is from Jonathan Swift...
Hey...
Yo, you’re back.
Yeah, with a record.
I owe you buddy.
Yeah, I can’t hang out
with you, dude.
I gotta stay
clean till the hearing.
Yeah, here when you need me.
Hey, hey, wait.
Wait.
I missed you so freaking much.
I thought they kicked you out.
Yeah, I’m turning around.
Why did you lie to me?
You were sleeping in
your car this whole time.
So what? It’s pretty
freaking sweet, right?
I can’t date you anymore.
What? Hey...
My dad said I can’t
see you anymore.
What do you want?
Huh?
No, I can’t. I can’t.
My dad can be real mean.
He gave me no choice.
Come on.
No, this is it.
Really, I’m sorry.
No. Tina.
Tina!
Ahh!
What?
Nate.
Ah, great.
Run, Nathan. Run.
Nate.
Oh, no. Nate, I’m not a runner.
Have mercy. Nate.
Oh, my lord.
Stan?
Stan.
Come on.
Hey. You okay?
Yeah. I’m fine.
I just couldn’t run anymore.
I can’t do this.
Stan, I’m cursed.
Everyone’s against me.
You’re not cursed,
but I won’t lie to you.
This is going to be hard.
Face everything
and deal with it, Nate.
Running away
only delays the problem.
I can’t.
You can.
This too shall pass.
What does that even mean, Stan?
It means that a year
from now, maybe even less,
this won’t seem that important.
Then why the
heck am I here, then?
That’s a good question, Nate.
Why are you here?
Girls and sports.
That’s the wrong answer.
What’s the right answer, Stan?
Why it’s to
keep him out of jail, Bob.
You do realize that this
is your only chance with
the judge, right?
What do you get out of it?
What?
Everyone’s got an angle, Stan.
Expelled! Seriously?
He only just came back.
I’m thinking about all
the students and their parents.
I already had a
dozen calls about him
coming back,
and I still took him in
and on his first day,
he rewards me by
punching out a window?
Well, put yourself
in his shoes, John.
Coming back here
after the way he left.
Stan, your first
priority is to this school.
You’re not a social worker.
Is it? I mean, is it, though?
Isn’t my first priority to
my students, all of them?
You know, kids
come to me all the time,
with some problem
they think is so big
their whole life
is gonna be ruined,
and I say to them, “Stand back.
Look at the big picture.
You’ll get through this.
One day you’ll look back at it
and see it
wasn’t such a big deal.
Your life
turned out just fine.”
But you and I know this isn’t
a level playing field, John.
Some kids are born
behind the eight ball,
and we’re lying
to them when we say
everything’s
gonna work out just fine.
But don’t those kids deserve
the same chance as the others?
I believe Nathan’s--
There’s a good kid there.
Please.
Give him detention.
Oh, my gosh.
I think he’s gonna live
in detention until he graduates.
So have you found
somewhere for him?
No. No, I tried.
There’s no room at the inn.
You’ve gotta be careful.
This is not the same
as being their teacher.
I know that.
No.
You don’t.
I had this student one time.
She lost her dad, and then
her mom became an alcoholic.
She completely shut down.
Stopped showing up to school.
So I tried to help.
Had her come to the house.
But, uh...
It really affected
Robert and the girls.
What did you do?
I didn’t do anything.
I watched her slip through
the cracks and into the system.
I never saw her again.
Okay.
Please keep in mind,
no speaking unless spoken to.
No arguing with the
Judge and look like a graduate.
Do you have another tie?
Never mind.
You said this was good.
Remember, this too shall pass.
Mr. Deen? Is it Mr. Stan Deen?
This is Mr. Deen, Your Honor.
Yes, thank you, Council.
Mr. Deen, I understand you are
providing supervision
for the defendant?
Yes, Your Honor.
Thank you, Mr. Deen, and
the defendant’s grandparents
are prepared to
assign custody to you?
Yes, we will.
And are you willing to
take on this responsibility?
I am, Your Honor.
Nathan Williams.
This charge carries an automatic
two-year minimum sentence.
I feel encouraged by
your return to school
and your plans to graduate.
I am minded to suspend
the bulk of that sentence.
And I note this is your first
appearance before the court.
72 hours at the local prison
will give you a taste
of what awaits
if you stray from your plan.
Failure to graduate guarantees
you serve
the sentence in full.
You will be appointed
a probation officer
to monitor your progress.
Thank you, Council.
That’s it?
Yeah, you did great.
You did it. I’m proud of you.
I didn’t do anything.
I stood there,
and kept my mouth shut.
Exactly.
So you knew the judge?
Not really.
Her daughter was in one of my
performing arts
classes years ago.
She’s on Broadway now.
Sweet girl.
You know, we can’t have you
sleeping on the couch anymore.
Come on.
I think you’ll be
more comfortable here.
What about your mom’s stuff?
This is your room now.
What’s going on?
What do you doing this weekend?
Uh, nothing.
God, Carl is such a douche.
He thinks he’s Mr. Miami Vice,
but he’s more like Donny
Osmond than he is Don Johnson.
Maybe.
They built the scene.
Yeah. That’s good.
-Yeah.
-Better.
Nice.
How’s the job hunt going?
No, no one hires people
with a criminal record, Stan.
I told you that.
Okay, well,
it’s not gonna help, obviously,
but get your grades up
and graduate.
It will change.
Hey, I could use your help.
Building sets
for our new production.
-There it is.
-What?
You do want something from me.
No, no. If I can’t
get a pay job,
I have to work for my board.
That’s not what I meant.
That’s it, Stan. No, I’m not
interested in your stupid play.
I’d say that’s pretty clear.
Wait.
Tina’s in this thing, right?
-Yes, but--
-I’ll do it.
You got this.
This is just another
bump in the road.
Remember, a year from now--
Got it.
This too shall pass.
St. Bethany’s in ’73.
That would have made you, six?
Yeah.
There till ’83,
including four different
foster home placements.
Okay.
Where are you now?
I’m with my teacher.
Your teacher?
What about your grandparents?
No, they gave away custody.
What about your
last foster parents?
The-- was it the Williams?
They should be
your legal guardians.
No, you should be with them.
No, no. The judge said
I could be with my teacher.
It should be there.
There’s no
record of that here.
The Williams
are your guardians.
You should be--
Nah. They said
I could be with him.
This is ridiculous.
Hey, Viola!
Yeah?
I need some records
of the court case.
Hey, Barney!
Hey, Stan!
Hey! How’s Maggie?
Oh, I can’t complain.
She started her own
business a few years back.
You’re kidding.
That’s great.
See, you met my student.
He’s staying with me
till he gets back on his feet.
The judge signed off on it.
So he told me.
Well, your teacher’s Stan Deen.
Why didn’t you say so?
Okay, so you’ve got
72 hours of prison time
coming up in
the new year, right?
Right.
All right, check
in with me once a week.
I run a tight ship.
Is there anyone
you don’t know?
Well, yes there is actually.
I don’t know her.
I don’t know them.
Merry Christmas, Mr. Deen.
Oh, Merry Christmas, Annabelle.
-Right.
-We should be getting home.
Keep going.
Wow, good job.
Look at those moves.
You know who’s going to
be in my next musical, right?
OK, guys, this is your set.
It looks great.
Good job.
And this is Algernon,
right?
Merry Christmas, Nathan.
Ho, ho, ho.
Who are all these presents for?
They’re for you.
All of them? They’re all mine?
Let me check.
Yours, yours,
yours, yours, yours.
Yep, all yours.
You bought all these for me?
Of course.
Nate. Nate!
Now what?
Nate. Get in the car.
Nate.
What’s wrong?
It doesn’t matter.
Why’d you do that, Stan?
Buy all that shit?
Is it--am I poor little homeless
boy? I’m a charity case?
It would make you feel good?
What?
No. Gosh, no. I mean,
I was trying to--
You do know
it’s Christmas, right?
I’ve never gotten
Christmas presents.
You never got
a Christmas present?
We used to do
underwear at the orphanage.
Underwear?
Oh, geez.
Gosh darn it.
I forgot underwear.
Oh, God.
Everything’s not a joke.
Stan, everything’s not funny.
Okay. Okay.
So why’d you do it?
I was trying to
make you feel good, Nate.
I want you to
have a good Christmas.
That’s all.
Well, what else would it be?
Bullshit. Stan,
everyone wants something back.
You know, for eight years,
it’s just been me and my mom.
She always said I smothered her.
Stop it, Stan. Don’t fuss.
I didn’t have anyone
to buy presents for this year.
I guess I was
thinking about me.
I’m sorry.
I apologize.
Merry Christmas,
Mr. Deen.
Oh, Merry Christmas.
Who was that?
Please, can we get in the car?
Have mercy.
Right.
Now I see how this might come
across as a little overboard.
Yeah, you think?
You know, I
didn’t get you anything.
Actually, you did.
Do--
Here. Here you go.
Merry Christmas,
Stan.
Merry Christmas, Stan.
Thank you, Nate.
What is it?
Just what I wanted.
Thank you, Nate.
Right. Now let’s
get to the good part.
Merry Christmas, Nate.
You’re the weirdest person ever.
Uh, you know that
Hershey bar you gave me?
The one in class?
Yeah.
At the orphanage,
when I first went to the
orphanage, I didn’t talk.
For two years,
I just didn’t speak.
And the keepers
would always bribe me
with a candy bar
to get me to talk.
And I never did.
Never took it.
And I never talked, so.
I know when you did that,
you didn’t want anything back.
You know, so.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Stan.
Merry Christmas, Nate.
Alice is an attractive
woman. She’s not married.
And there’s nothing wrong.
You stay away from
your sister’s friends.
Do you hear me, Charlie?
You’ve got to
stay away from girls.
If you go near a girl,
I’m going to put you in a cage
for the rest of your life.
Do you hear me,
Charlie? Do you hear me?
Okay, Carol. You need to be
really scary, okay?
Look.
When Charlie tries to be
romantic and close with Alice,
he gets this
sudden memory of his mom
being all mean
to him because as a kid,
whenever he’d have those
feelings for any girl,
that’s how she’d react, okay?
Really mean.
So these memories,
they pop out of nowhere
and it really frightens
Charlie, okay?
Try again.
Oh, rehearsal shots.
Yeah, I thought they could
use them for the program.
If they want.
Oh, they’ll want.
These are good.
Yeah, cool.
These are good, Nate.
Where did you learn to do this?
At a foster family I went to.
One of the real kids
there had a camera
and I stole it and used it.
Real kids?
Yeah, yeah.
That’s what we used
to call them in the orphanage.
What was the orphanage like?
It was alright.
Keepers are okay.
Keepers?
Yeah, they ran it.
They tried their best.
Do you remember your
home before that? Where it was?
No, not really.
My mom used to
call it Green Acres.
After the TV show?
Right.
So was she like Eva Gabor?
She was the star of the show.
Very glamorous. Very beautiful.
Yeah, yeah, I guess so,
yeah.
She stood out. Remember that.
We’d go out and people
would stare at her all the time.
Remember feeling pretty cool.
And your dad?
Maybe that could be
the cover of the program.
Hmm. Wonder why.
Once more unto the breach,
dear friends, once more;
Or close the wall up
with our English dead.
Nathan...
We’re gonna play a
new game tonight, okay?
It’s gonna be a lot of fun.
We’re gonna run,
really, really fast.
As far as we can,
for as long as we can.
And we’re not gonna stop
until I say so, okay?
You can do that?
You promise me? Okay.
Okay, c’mon sweetie.
Gloria,
come on down.
Nathan, hurry.
Come on, quicker.
Run now, baby, run.
I can’t help you.
Mom...
Look.
It’s so calm and peaceful.
And we’ll be
together forever.
Gloria!
Hey, looking for
newspapers from like early 1973.
Would you have those?
Thank you.
♪ This little light of mine ♪
♪ I’m gonna let it shine ♪
Okay, good night.
Farewell.
God knows when
we shall meet again.
Actually, I do.
Tomorrow night at seven,
stagger-through of act one.
Bye, Mr. Deen.
Good night, Mr. D.
Bye.
Good job today.
Can I talk to you
for a second?
I can’t see you anymore, Nate.
What part of that
don’t you understand?
-Just let me explain.
-Explain what?
You were arrested,
and now you’re a changed man.
You’re going back to prison.
Yeah for,
for a few days, Tina.
Then it will be done with.
Stage
light’s going out.
Okay, just
leave me alone, Nathan.
Tina.
Tina!
Come on, can
we just talk, please?
No, we can’t talk.
-Tina!
-What?
Come on.
Ow!
Stop! What are you doing?
Tina,
get in the car.
Daddy, we weren’t even--
Get in the car!
Nathan, stay
away from Tina, okay?
So don’t talk to
her, don’t touch her,
just stay the hell
away from my daughter, got it?
Nathan, do we
understand each other?
Yeah, okay, I get it.
It’s only
for 72 hours, okay?
Call me when you’re
ready for me to pick you up.
And remember--
Don’t.
Don’t say it, Stan.
Nathan...
Nathan.
♪ I’m gonna let it shine ♪
Okay, listen,
Tina, when you cross downstage,
don’t cross in
front of Barnaby, okay?
All right, let’s
take it from your entrance.
-All right, and Barnaby?
-Yeah.
I’m about ready to give
my doctor his marching orders
and sign up with you.
Thanks, Mr. D.
I take Blue Cross
and Blue Shield.
Okay, good for you.
Okay, here we go.
And remember,
project, project, project.
Yes, sir.
It’s really
coming along, Stan.
Oh, thanks.
Yeah.
John asked me to come down
and speak with you for a minute.
Okay.
Guys, take five.
We have a problem.
-It sucked.
-Good.
It wasn’t supposed
to be the Ritz.
I have some bad news for you.
It’s about Tina.
She’s out of bounds.
That’s not fair, Stan.
Nate, look
at the big picture.
No, I get it.
I get it.
Help me, Stan.
I like her. I have...
real feelings for her.
How do I handle that?
I can’t just make them go away.
I will.
It may not
have very long...
I’m gonna catch you,
later.
Hey, would you,
would you wait a minute?
What?
I just, I brought you flowers.
I wanted to say
you did a great job.
I know you can’t talk
to me anymore or whatever,
but I thought you should know
how great you were on stage.
Hey, I’ve,
I’ve turned it around.
Okay, I have, and I
know your dad doesn’t want us
talking anymore or whatever.
It’s not my
dad, Nathan, okay?
It’s me.
Great show, man.
You killed it.
-Congrats.
-Thank you so much.
Thank you, so much.
I picked them out
myself, right?
They’re beautiful.
-Thank you.
-Get out of here.
Man, I can do
what I want.
-Nate!
-She’s not your girl anymore.
Stop!
What are you doing?
Just ruin everything.
Hey Nate!
Let’s get out of here.
Yeah.
Where were you?
Your probation officer?
You had a meeting?
So what?
I messed up.
You attacked
a student at school!
With a bunch of flowers,
Stan. Come on.
When are you gonna
stop pulling this crap, Nathan?
It’s what I do, Stan?
You gonna try and fix me?
You know many people have tried?
Why, you ungrateful little--
No, say it.
Was it ungrateful little...
-Shit.
-Yeah.
Yeah, shit.
A liar, a loser, a failure.
I’ve heard it all before, Stan.
Screw you, dude.
Screw me, really, Nate?
That’s a little
quaint for you, isn’t it?
I mean, I guess this is better
than you mooching
and slouching around.
Maybe we’re getting somewhere.
Come on, what else you got?
-Get out of my face.
-Come on, what else you got?
Everyone thinks
you’re frickin’ amazing, Stan.
You’re just a
failed frickin’ actor.
-Ooh.
-Yeah.
I mean, and one day
I’m gonna tell you exactly
what’s frickin’ wrong with you.
-Okay, let’s do it right now.
-You wanna do it right now?
-Right now!
-You’re so frickin’ optimistic.
Okay. What else?
Go back to Hollywood, fail
again, stop trying to be safe.
-Stan!
-And miss this.
A fight with Nate Williams
at long last.
Come on, Nate. What else
you got? I can take it.
You know, whether it’s
something your dad did to you
or your mom didn’t do, you
have got to deal with it, Nate.
You were gonna say something.
-No, I wasn’t...no.
-You were.
Please, tell me. I saw it.
No, no, no.
I messed up, Stan.
That’s it.
Well, you can’t afford to
blow it anymore, Nate.
I don’t care!
Why do you
care if I don’t care?
Am I supposed to be shocked?
Oh, forget it.
Nate Williams doesn’t care
because he’s too cool.
Well, guess what, Nate?
I care.
Yeah.
I care that you go
to school and you graduate.
I care that you don’t
blow it with Barney
and the judge.
I care that
you don’t go to prison.
What did Barney say?
He’s not a happy man, Nate.
Come on, let’s talk.
We’re talking.
Really talk?
I don’t know.
My dad was a bad person.
I’m a bad person.
That’s what I’ve been told.
That’s what it is.
Except you’re not
a bad person, okay?
You’ve just had bad luck.
Yeah.
Hey.
I can’t let you
come on the trip, Nate.
You attacked Carl.
Yeah, it’s okay.
I get it.
It’s actually not okay.
So...and
Barney needs to see you.
I’ll see you tonight.
Dude, I’m losing my mind.
Yeah? Are you
ready to party?
-So ready.
-Alright.
Yo Nate, where we goin’?
What about your place, Nate?
Mr. Deen’s away.
-I don’t know.
-Come on. It’ll be fun.
Dude, we’re going.
-Dude.
-Bro.
-You made it.
-What’s up?
Good to see you, man.
Hey, man. How you doing?
You look great.
Dude, not on records.
Come on.
Johnny, Johnny.
Dude, who
are all these people?
Yo, is this cool or what?
No, this is a disaster.
-What?
-It’s a disaster, Dude.
No, bro.
Look at all these ladies.
I’ll catch you later.
Noah, dude.
Noah, get out.
Get out, dude.
Come on.
Get out.
Holy crap.
It’s everywhere.
Everyone out.
Get the hell out.
Wait, wait, It’s okay.
It’s okay.
Get the hell out.
Whoa, whoa, guys,
guys, guys, guys, guys, guys.
Yo, party at my place, yeah?
Yeah. Whoa, let’s roll.
That was so good, Mr. Deen.
It was, wasn’t it?
-Yeah...So good.
-Okay.
The lighting, Mr. D...
Awesome.
Yeah, but
you know what, Travis,
you can’t sing the lighting.
-Good night.
-Good night, Mr. D.
Good night.
Okay, thank you.
What on earth...
Stan.
What is wrong with you?
Look, Stan, I--
After everything
I’ve done for you.
Pearls before swine.
What does that mean?
It means what’s the
point in trying to help someone
who’s too
stupid to appreciate it?
That’s what that means, Nate.
That’s what you think of me?
Well, what am I
supposed to think, Nate?
Look at this place.
Some friends came over
and it got out of hand.
I don’t want to hear it.
At least I have friends, Stan.
Without my friends,
you’d be in jail.
You just took me in
because you’re lonely.
Oh my lord.
I can’t look at you right now.
Just get out.
Please.
Hola amigo.
Mi casa es tu casa.
What are you doing?
Just keepin’ her
warm for you, man.
It’s a joke.
All right, I think you
need a drink, huh?
Yeah, let’s go.
Welcome to Woodstock.
Oh,...
It’s not funny.
It’s hilarious.
Oh.
I’m such an asshole.
Old Stan, Stan the man,
he didn’t deserve that shit.
How can I do that shit?
But then, how
can I not do that?
You know?
Excuse me, guys.
-Hey, how you doing?
-Good, how are you?
Can I interest
you in a little bit of that? No?
You said you
saw something in him.
That he had the potential
to be a good young man.
You saw that.
This is the senior year,
last semester.
And I’ve seen worse.
And the really important thing
to remember, Stan, is that...
The really important thing
for me to remember?
Deb?
What is the important thing?
I’m listening.
What?
Gloria!
Please, stop, please!
Stop! Stop! No! No! No!
Come on!
No! No! No! No! No!
See what I
have for you.
Nathan!
Nathan, come on!
Come on, run!
Nathan!
Nathan, Nathan, come on!
Nathan.
Get up, Mommy!
Run.
No.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, no, no,
get down, don’t, don’t...
Come on, man.
Come on.
C’mon bud.
Code blue, emergency room,
room three. Code blue.
Hello?
Room three.
Code blue,
emergency room, room three.
He’s asystole,
charge to 300.
Get that CPR going.
Oh, God, no,
please, no, no, no!
Hey, hey,
clear the room.
You cannot be in here!
-Out, out!
-You need to leave!
25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30.
Where are we at?
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8...
Did we get
any response from him?
10, 11, 12, 13, 14.
Any response from him?
Any response?
17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24
Ah, we got him back.
Good. I see a pulse.
We’ve got a pulse.
Give me the
blood pressure reading.
Check his
pulse once again.
Let’s order some labs.
Give me a CBC, PFP.
I need a neck
and chest x-ray.
I can’t stop pissing.
Well, you had yourself
quite a party there last night,
young man.
They got to
flush out your system.
Good luck.
Hey, Barney.
Stan.
I just wanted to come by,
see how you’re doing.
I’m doing okay.
He’s doing better.
Yeah.
On his way to a full recovery.
That’s good.
Because obviously
as I’m your P.O.,
they’ve told me everything.
Right.
What were you trying to do,
Nathan? Fly off that bridge?
I mean you miss our appointment,
which is a violation.
Then you end up in a
hospital with your system
full of enough narcotics
to knock out a horse.
You know what happens when
this gets in front of the judge.
Please, Barney.
Stan, it’s okay.
You’ve done enough.
Sir, I know
what you have to do.
Tell him what happened.
What?
Tell Barney what happened.
Tell me what happened.
I want to hear.
He knows what happened.
No. What happened
with your mom?
You saw it.
There was no accident.
Tell us. I’ll--
we’ll believe you.
I’ll believe you.
Tell us.
My father was an angry man.
That’s all I ever remember.
That’s all I was ever told.
He used to beat my mom.
And eventually she just
got the cops to kick him out,
told him to stay away.
Then she met this
guy who just made her,
he made her so happy.
She was so happy.
Which-- that just,
drove my dad insane.
Drove him crazy.
And he-- I remember
he’d follow us in his car,
stalking her basically, like
spying on her, spying on us.
One day, after he-- Blake,
was a, the guy
my mom was seeing, Blake.
After he left, he
was staying at our house,
he left, and I guess
dad was just sitting there.
He’d been sitting
there all night just waiting,
just watching and
waiting for Blake to leave.
So when he did, he pulled in.
And I ran up to him and I...
And he shot her.
Shot her with
his hunting rifle.
Shot her twice.
And I watched her die.
After a while he,
he left, he went outside.
After some time, I don’t
know how long, but I got up too.
And I followed him and I
walked out to the front porch.
I’m sorry, son.
If I can’t have her,
no one else can.
My God.
Oh lord--
I just stayed there,
sat there, until this woman,
probably a neighbor, I think,
she came and picked me up
and took me to her house,
put me in a tub and
washed all of his...
Nanny and Grandpa came,
and they picked me up and
they took me to their place.
And Nanny was so upset.
She was so
upset, of course, right?
But then, she said we couldn’t
say what actually happened.
You have to say that
your mom died in a car crash.
because then, you know,
you can’t have people knowing
what your father had done.
Because they’re going to think
that you’re going to grow up
and you’re going to do
the same thing.
That apple doesn’t
fall far from the tree shit.
So whenever I’d say
what actually happened,
that my father had killed
himself, after killing my mom,
she’d stop me. She’d stop me and
say I was making up stories.
And then I...
That’s what she told the
people at Bethany’s
when she put me there.
So I just...
You know, I stopped talking.
I had nothing to say anyway.
That was my fault.
What was?
What he did.
No, it wasn’t.
You weren’t there, Stan.
You weren’t there.
You didn’t see his face.
You didn’t see his
reaction when I said...
Because I ran up to him
when he got there, I said...
I said, “Is Blake
going to be my new daddy?”
The look on his
face was just pure...
pain.
It wasn’t your fault?
No, it was. If I didn’t
say anything,
he wouldn’t have got so mad.
It wasn’t your fault.
He was already there, Nate.
That’s why he brought the gun.
Stop letting him off
the hook by blaming yourself.
It wasn’t your fault.
Come on.
Poor kid.
Yeah.
Next time, Stan,
if he messes up again,
he’s going straight in front of
the judge, so help me God.
Thanks, Barney.
You tell him.
I will. Thank you. Thank you.
Hey, I gotta go somewhere.
Can you take me?
Hi mom.
Okay, that’s it from me.
Merry Christmas, everybody.
Merry Christmas!
Adieu...adieu... remember me.
See you next year.
See you next year, Mr. Deen.
My God. I can’t believe it.
Well, my life’s work is done.
Nate Williams playing
Christmas mus--
Okay, come on. Come on.
Come on. Come on.
-We’re gonna go somewhere.
-What?
You’ll find out.
-Well, can I put my book bag--
-No, Stan. Come on.
-Can we take my car?
-No. Come on.
Where are we going?
You’ll find out.
You’re not putting me
in a home, are you?
Here.
Take this.
Hey, Max. How you doing, man?
Hey, Nate.
Good to see you.
This is Mr. Deen.
Hi, Stan.
Oh, hi, Stan. Welcome...
So exciting.
Yeah.
Yes.
Should we get the kids?
Let’s get the kids.
Yeah, let’s do it.
Hey, guys.
Hey, Merry Christmas.
Do you want to
come out here for a second?
Yeah.
Come on. Let’s
go. Let’s go. Let’s go.
Hey, Merry Christmas,
guys.
Do you want to
come out here for a second?
Sit down, guys. Come on.
Yeah, cool.
Come on, everyone.
Let’s go.
Okay, guys. Come on in.
Come in. Sit down, guys.
All right. Huh?
All right. Don’t be shy.
Come on down.
All right. Huh? Merry Christmas.
My name’s Nate.
I used to live here,
like you guys.
I was here on and
off about eight years.
And, I remember Christmas.
You guys
still get the underwear?
Yeah.
Yeah. Look, hey,
I just graduated high
school last summer.
And I just wanted to let
you guys know that, you know,
you got to hang in there.
You know, there are people
out there who will help you,
who want to help you.
You just got to let them.
You know, for me, it
was my teacher, Mr. Stan Deen.
Everyone say hi, Mr. Deen.
Hi!
Well, hello, everyone.
Merry Christmas.
Look at what we got.
Merry Christmas!
How many did you bring?
See, it’s not weird.
They’re not all for
the same person.
How did you pay for them?
You did.
The money I asked for
to fix my car.
I’ll pay you back.
You already did.
Stan.
We got to throw
one soft one.
Three, two, one.
Hey!
Oh, no!
Gentlemen,
gentlemen, gentlemen.
Come on, pass it back.
All right, everybody.
One for everyone.